Lab 5 Writeup
LING 567
February 9, 2023
Melody Bechler, Alexandra Cassell


MMT section:

To collect MMT sentences, we first found translations for all of the vocabulary in the eng.txt
file. Two of the words in the vocabulary were not in our resources. The words "park" and "chase"
we replaced with "yard" and "watch", respectively. In creating the vocabulary, we attempted to
include all possible verb tense and mood variations for all verbs, including past, nonpast, and
focus structure. We then created sentences based on the vocabulary and phenomena already present
in our testsuite/choices file.

We skipped two sentences in the eng.txt: "Dogs in the park eat "and "The dog sleeps after the cat
sleeps". The construction of the first sentence is not one we found in our resources. The second
sentence involves phenomena we do not expect to get to. "passe", meaning "after", is more complicated
to model. It requires a past tense verb form with dative case. Our resources do not show this verb in
past tense alone, which of course we could attempt to model given other past tense examples. Past tense
is commonly associated with reflexives, which we are not modeling, and therefore think modeling the
final sentence of eng.txt will not be possible.

Other sentences that may not be possible to model due to phenomena include the following:
1. balla ba32ginii -> The dogs are hungry
2. balla midule inn2wa -> The dogs are in the park
3. balla puusa inn2wa -> The dogs are the cats


The first sentence is a non-verbal predicate, a phenomena we have no yet covered. We do not expect to
model this sentence. The second and third sentences are also considered non-verbal, but both contain a
verb that, once added to the choices file, could be modelled.


#should we skip the others in sin.txt or...?

#can we accurately model these two coordination constructions???? -- i think the translations are close
balla kaar bal2n2wa puusa balla bal2n2wa -> Dogs watch cars and cats watch dogs
puusa balla bal2n2wa nid2n2wa -> Cats watch dogs and sleep


To do:
#need to add vocab to choices file ----- repalcements










Choices file improvements for 3 Phenomena:

Tdl Edits:

First Translation:

Testsuite:
